README.md, before:

# 📄 Documentation for Fleet SDK

[Fleet SDK](https://github.com/fleet-sdk/fleet) is an easy-to-use, modular, and extensible off-chain code SDK (Software Development Kit)for the [Ergo Platform](https://ergoplatform.org/en/), written entirely in TypeScript.

The aim for this respository is to provide:

+ A Guide to [Getting Started](https://fleet-sdk.github.io/docs/guide/getting-started)
+ [Examples](docs/guide/examples.md) of Fleet SDK

## Contributing

This site is built with [VitePress](https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress). Site content is written in Markdown format. For simple edits, you can directly edit the file on GitHub and generate a Pull Request. If you would like to use an IDE, [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/) works well with documentation using VitePress.

## Working on the content

- See VitePress docs on supported [Markdown Extensions](https://vitepress.vuejs.org/guide/markdown.html) and the ability to [use Vue syntax inside markdown](https://vitepress.vuejs.org/guide/using-vue.html).

Commit message:

Minor editing: fixed website link on README, and minor text changes on these three.

README.md, after:

# 📄 Documentation for Fleet SDK

[Fleet SDK](https://github.com/fleet-sdk/fleet) is an easy-to-use, modular, and extensible off-chain code SDK (Software Development Kit)for the [Ergo Platform](https://ergoplatform.org/en/), written entirely in TypeScript.

**Fleet SDK** is currently in alpha status. It is already suitable for out-of-the-box use, but the API may still change between minor releases.

This repository is for the [Fleet SDK Documentation](https://fleet-sdk.github.io/docs/) website. 

## Contributing

This site is built with [VitePress](https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress). Site content is written in Markdown format. For simple edits, you can directly edit the file on GitHub and generate a Pull Request. If you would like to use an IDE, [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/) works well with documentation using VitePress.

## Working on the content

- See VitePress docs on supported [Markdown Extensions](https://vitepress.vuejs.org/guide/markdown.html) and the ability to [use Vue syntax inside markdown](https://vitepress.vuejs.org/guide/using-vue.html).
