docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: home

title: Fleet SDK
titleTemplate: Fluent Ergo Toolset

hero:
  name: Fleet SDK
  text: Fluent Ergo Toolset
  tagline: Simple, powerful, and extensible. Meet the next generation of Ergo Platform's off-chain code SDKs.
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /guide/getting-started
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/fleet-sdk

features:
  - title: Simplicity first
    details: Fleet abstracts all complex tasks and makes heavy use Fluent APIs to deliver a great developer experience.
  - title: Power of Ergo meets JavaScript
    details: JavaScript allows running off-chain code directly on user's browser, which means better decentralization as it makes backends unnecessary for most cases.
  - title: "Pure JavaScript"
    details: Enjoy the experience of writing frictionless off-chain code with a fully typed and pure JS library.
  - title: "Write once, run anywhere."
    details: Out-of-the-box compatible with Node.js and Browser environments.
---

Commit message:

Added to README, examples.md and did some initial editing.

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: home

title: Fleet SDK
titleTemplate: Fluent Ergo Toolset

hero:
  name: Fleet SDK
  text: Fluent Ergo Toolset
  tagline: Simple, powerful, and extensible. Meet the next generation of Ergo Platform's off-chain code SDKs.
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /guide/getting-started
    - theme: brand
      text: Examples
      link: /guide/examples
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/fleet-sdk

features:
  - title: Fluent & powerful
    details: Fleet abstracts all complex tasks and makes heavy use of fluent APIs to deliver a great developer experience.
  - title: Light provisioning
    details: JavaScript can run off-chain code directly in the user's browser. Eliminating the need for backends can simplify the creation of more decentralized applications.
  - title: Easy to program
    details: Enjoy the experience of writing frictionless off-chain code with a fully typed and pure Javascript library.
  - title: "Write once, run anywhere"
    details: Extensible and portable. Out-of-the-box compatible with Node.js and browser environments.
---
